In this example, the three 
measures of ensemble similarity implemented in ENCORE (harmonic, clustering and
dimensionality reduction) are tested. In this case, we are comparing few 
different experimental ensembles of the Ubiquitin resolved by different
NMR methods with a collection of crystal structures (xray.dcd). This example
is inspired from the paper 

   Lange OF,Lakomek NA,Fares C,Schroder GF,Walter KF,et al. (2008)
   Recognition dynamics up to microseconds revealed from an RDC-derived 
   ubiquitin ensemble in solution. Science 320: 1471–1475

in which an residual dipolar couplings (RDC)-derived Ubiquitin ensemble 
is compared with several other Ubiquitin experimental ensembles. 

In a similar fashion,  we use our ensemble comparison 
methods to compare several NMR-resolved ensembles, together with a 
collection of X-ray structures. The NMR ensembles are:

DER: 1XQQ
EROS: 2K39
ERNST: 2KOX
SB: 2LJ5
MUMO: 2NR2

In this directory, three .sh files are present (harmonic.sh, clustering.sh 
and dimred.sh). If the set_environment.sh file has been adequately set in the
 examples directory and ENCORE is correctly installed, they should be 
completely automatical. The three scripts refer to thee different methods 
implemented in ENCORE: the harmonic similiarity measure (harmonic.sh), 
that based on clustering (clustering.sh) and finally the method based 
upon dimensionality reduction (dimred.sh).

Running the .sh scripts generates the correct command lines, which are then 
run. IMPORTANT: the clustering.sh script should be run before the dimred.sh. 
This is because the the script generates a RMSD matrix on file, which is then 
used in the dimred example instead of being re-calculated from scratch.

Each script produces a log file which contains the output of the analysis: 
one ore or more matrices, which contain the values for the selected similarity
 ensemble measure between each ensemble and each other. 

The values in the output matrices are in the same order with which the input 
files are provided to the program, which is the following:

    DER, EROS, ERNST, SB, MUMO, X-ray

This means that the values in the output matrix are to be interpreted as follows:

     	   DER  EROS  ERNST    SB	   MUMO	  X-ray
 DER	   0.0	0.1   0.4      ...
 EROS	   0.1	0.0   0.3
 ERNST	   0.4  0.3   0.0	      
 SB	   ...
 MUMO
 X-ray

